[MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: We have a date
function which was inspired by Java's Date
class, which was not Y2K ready
when it was introduced in 1995.
I don't know if they didn't think
the language was going to be around that
long or if they didn't see it coming or
what the deal was.
But we survived it.
Hooray, and it's been fixed,
so we got that.
We got regular expressions which
were borrowed from Perl 4.
This is a regular expression literal that
matches regular expression literals.
That's what I claim, the thing that
I hate about this convention is that
if you have a regular expression that's
longer than an inch or two, it's
really hard to have any confidence that
it contains what you think it contains,
so that it matches or rejects what
you think it will match and reject.
And I will confess I've written regular
expression literals that are several feet
long and I am not proud of that.
But the language doesn't
make it easy to do because
they all have to be scrunched together.
You can't even use whitespace in them
to kind of separate the elements so
you can see what it's doing.
And all smushed together,
it's virtually impossible for
human to decipher what that is.
Fortunately, there is something
on the web called Regulex.
And you give a regular expression
literal to Regulex and
it will give you a railroad diagram
of what that regular expression does.
So you can see what it does and
you can have a good understanding
of how it will behave.
I will not write another regular
expression without running it
through Regulex.
Highly, highly recommended.
Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: Find
yourself writing a regular expression
that's too many inches long,
can you just get a smaller string?
>> Douglas Crockford: Yeah,
thank you for that.
>> Audience: [LAUGH]
>> Douglas Crockford: I had to, sorry.
>> Speaker 2: No you didn't have to.
>> Audience: [LAUGH]
>> Douglas Crockford: So you're probably
wondering when do the good parts start.
I haven't heard any good parts yet.
Functions, functions are the good part and
we'll talk about those in the next hour.
So in JavaScript all values
are objects except null and undefined.
These are what are sometimes
called bottom values.
And there's some debate as to whether
a language should have any bottom values?
There's no debate on the question,
should a language have two bottom values?
The answer is absolutely not,
that doesn't make any sense.
But we have two.
And they act a lot alike but
they don't act exactly alike, so
they're not interchangeable.
But some people use them
interchangeably which is a confusion,
confusion causes bugs, I don't like that.
So I recommend using only one of them and
the one I choose to use
is undefined because that's the one
that the language itself uses, but
both of them are used to represent
values that are not objects.
These are the only values in
the language that are not objects.
So if you try to retrieve a value from one
of these, you're not gonna get anything.
If you try to execute them as functions,
they'll throw exceptions.
They're just used to indicate
the absence or the end of something.
So I recommend using undefined.
Choose undefined because it is
the one that the language itself uses.
So if I'm only gonna use one,
let's use the language as one.
So it's the default value for
variables and parameters.
So if you create a variable but
you don't initialize it,
it actually gets initialized for
you with the undefined value.
And if you have a function and
you don't pass enough arguments in,
the missing parameters will
get bound to undefined.
It's a value of missing
members of objects and arrays.
So he tried to retrieve a property or
an element and it isn't there.
You don't get a runtime warning,
you don't get a compile time warning.
Instead, you get the undefined value
which is actually a very nice thing.
Because it allows you to reflect
on objects without any effort,
you just asked, you got one of those and
if you get a value back and
you got something or
if you didn't, then you didn't.
One thing to watch out for though is that
you can store undefined into an object and
then you can read that undefined back but
you can't easily tell, I'm I getting an
undefined that was stored in the object or
I'm getting an undefined because
it wasn't stored in the object?
They both look the same.
That's a confusion,
I don't like confusion.
There's a type of operator in
JavaScript which will return a string
identifying what the type of something is.
For example, if you pass it an object,
it returns a string object which is great.
You pass it a function, it returns
the word function which is great.
If you pass it an array,
it returns object which is not
technically wrong because everything is
an object but it's certainly not useful.
You'd like it to return array
because that's what it is.
So, but if you pass it no,
it returns object which is just wrong.
There's no excuse for that.
It doesn't make it hard to
detect if something is null
because there's only one null value, so
you can ask, are you triple equal to null?
That's very effective.
The problem is, you're trying to
figure out, are you an object?
Because if you're not an object there are
certain things I don't want to try next.
And this test fails for that,
which is really, really bad.
So we have Array.isArray now,
it was added to the language in ES5.
While it's extremely ugly
looking it does finally allow
us to detect if some value is an array or
not, which is good.
And this is how it is
implemented on older browsers.
JavaScript is a boolish language in
that every value is truthy or falsy.
The falsy values are false,
null, undefined,
the empty string, the number 0, and NaN.
All other values are truthy.
Including the string 0,
the string false, all objects,
all arrays even if they're empty,
all those are truthy.
I think this was a huge mistake.
The purpose of this was to
allow if statements to work
in a way that's similar
to the way C works.
C is not a strongly typed language.
And so it uses 0 to represent
the number 0, and false,
and null and a few other things,
end of strings,
I'm sure there are lots of others.
So the condition of an if
statement in C is 0 or not 0, and
JavaScript wanted to look like that but
it turns out to be a bad idea.
We'll see some examples of that tomorrow.
>> Douglas Crockford: JavaScript
is a loosely typed language in that any of
these types can be stored in any variable
or passed as a parameter to any function.
The language is not untyped because as we
had seen we've got a lot of very specific
types but it's loosely typed.
And I contend this is a good part and
although that statement is very
controversial the prevailing
style in the world is calling for
strong typing and there are really
good arguments for strong typing.
The argument is that strong typing allows
the compiler to find errors very early.
And the earlier we can find errors, the
more valuable that is and that is true.
And so when I first start working
with JavaScript, I was very,
very nervous because this is
a loosely typed language,
any kind of type can be passed in as any
parameter or be stored in any property.
How could you have any confidence
that anything's ever gonna work,
cuz gotta be prepared for
anything at any time was crazy.
But what I found in working with
the language was that to my surprise,
my testing burden did not go up,
all right?
I thought I was gonna have to be
watching for all of these things and
putting in explicit type checks of my own,
and I very rarely ever had to do that.
And in fact, what I found was
that the sorts of bugs that
a type checker can find,
you find instantly anyway if you're doing
even the most trivial level of testing,
those things show up right away.
That type systems provide no help in
finding the bugs that
keep you up at night.
And that you end up doing a lot
less work because in a strongly
typed language you end up spending a lot
of time working against the type system.
There are things you need to do
in order to get your job done and
the type system doesn't want
you doing those things.
And so you have to figure out ways to get
around it and that's a lot of effort.
And any time you cast then that means
the type system is failing you.
And you end up casting way too much.
Also it turns out there is a large class
of errors which are caused by the type
system.
Because the type system is
causing you to circumvent it,
you end up doing a lot of extra work and
some of that work turns into bugs.
And in JavaScript that
tends not to happen.
So I find in JavaScript writing correct
programs is not harder than in Java,
I think it's actually easier.
And you do a lot less work because you're
not managing all the types all the time,
that's my argument.
You might not believe me, and it doesn't
matter if you're writing in JavaScript get
used to it because that's how it works.
So in JavaScript,
objects are are passed by reference
not by value which means
that objects are not copied.
In fact, there is no way, no easy way in
JavaScript to make a copy of an object
which seems like a surprising omission but
in practice I've not
found it to be a problem.
The === operator compares
object references so
it'll give you true only if both
operands are the same object.
There is no easy test for,
are two objects very similar,
containing the same properties,
having the same values?
That again, seems like a strange omission,
but I've not found that to be a problem.